Now, in this section, we have taken a look at two motion models.
The first one is the constant velocity model,
which assumes that the velocity of the preceding vehicle does not change.
As you can see here,
this model does not fit very well to the real world,
when it is about detecting collisions.
Now when a vehicle breaks,
its velocity decreases over time,
and is therefore not constant.
We have also seen the constant acceleration model,
which allows for velocity change under the assumption,
that acceleration is not constant.
Now the question is, how much do both models differ?
Let's take a look at the following scenario.
As you can see here in this scenario we have yellow vehicle,
which is following a green vehicle,
and the other one is equipped with some kind of sensor.
Let say a lighter sensor,
and this sensor returns 3D measurements for example those red crosses here,
that might be 3D points returned by the sensor of yellow vehicle.
Now, what we do here is we look at the closest point which is measured,
and this closest point gives us the distance DT which is
valid for the time T. We have two models here.
The first one is the constant velocity model,
which is reflected by V0 and V0 is always 30 kilometers per hour.
The second model we have is the constant acceleration model,
and this of course has a varying speed but at a point in time T,
this speed is also VT equals 30 kilometers per hour.
That means it's the same initial speed as V0 for the constant velocity model.
Now, when the green vehicle breaks,
of course it decelerates,
and the deceleration is constant,
and as reflected by A0,
and A0 is at five meters per square second.
Now the question for you is,
what's the time to collision until the green vehicle and the yellow vehicle collide,
based on AV the constant velocity model,
and B the constant acceleration model here?
Compute those values using the equations you have seen in the section,
and also compare the results and look at which model gives you which time to collision.
Now please go ahead and compute the TTC and seconds for both motion models,
by solving the motion equations you saw earlier.
You should see a big difference between both models.
In a commercial product,
we would not choose the constant velocity model.
Once you complete the exercise, you will know why.
But in the context of this course,
it makes sense to use constant velocity,
just because we can focus more deeply on computer vision aspects,
and said without making the code it involves in the math too complicated.
So let's do the math, and run the numbers.